docs/installing-linux.md, before:

---
title: Installing Linux
layout: default
nav_order: 12
---

## Installing Linux
Thanks to recent advancements in the chrultrabook community, Linux works really well on most Chromebooks.

----------------

### Recommended Distributions

{: .note } 
Only Linux kernel 6.4 or newer is supported.

{: .warning } 
Ubuntu and Ubuntu-based distributions that are not based on 23.10 or higher **may have issues**.

{: .warning } 
Debian versions older than Debian 12 (Bookworm) are **not supported**.

{: .warning } 
Debian 12 (Bookworm) requires a custom kernel, the [audio script](https://chrultrabook.github.io/docs/docs/installing-linux.html#fixing-audio) will automatically install it for you.

**Recommended distros as of August 2023 (in no particular order) are:**

* Arch Linux
* Fedora
* OpenSUSE Tumbleweed
* Debian 12 (Bookworm)

----------------


### Installation:

1. Create a bootable Linux USB. See [here](bootableusb.html) for a guide.
2. Plug the USB Drive into the Chromebook.
3. Turn on the Chromebook, press `ESC` at the POST screen (when the boot logo appears), and select your USB to boot from. 
4. Install as you would on any other computer.
5. (Optional) Install Chultrabook Tools for fan controls, backlight controls, system information and more
   See [Chrultrabook Controller](https://github.com/death7654/Chrultrabook-Controller)


--------------


### Fixing Audio

 {: .warning }
 Using AVS on a device with max98357a will blow your speakers. You have been warned. 

**Prerequisites**
- Python 3.10 or newer
- Git

**Installation**
0. Open a terminal.
1. `git clone https://github.com/WeirdTreeThing/chromebook-linux-audio`
2. `cd chromebook-linux-audio`
3. `./setup-audio`

For more information please see [WeirdTreeThing's repo](https://github.com/WeirdTreeThing/chromebook-linux-audio)

{: .fs-5 }


<table>
<tr>
<td class="navtable-l">
<a href="altos.html">← Installing altOS</a> 
</td>
<td class="navtable-r">
<a href="post-install.html">Post Install →</a> 
</td>
</tr>
</table>

Commit message:

Edit markdown formatting and page layout for consistency, clean up trailing spaces and unnecessary blank lines in code to address #87 Replace some horizontal lines with breaks for a better reading experience Fix non-sequential numbering Make title block on each page more uniform with consideration to adding relevant terminology for that page directly underneath the title (see open WIP checklist #62)
Move install directions for Chrultrabook Controller to post-install.md
Remove old information regarding running Windows on RW_LEGACY if using Ryzen
Remove accidental "reboot" instruction on purchasing-drivers.md
...and other various minor fixes

docs/installing-linux.md, after:

---
title: Installing Linux
layout: default
nav_order: 12
---

# Installing Linux

Thanks to recent advancements in the chrultrabook community, Linux works really well on most Chromebooks.

{: .note } 
Only Linux kernel 6.4 or newer is supported.

---

## Recommended Distributions

{: .warning } 
Ubuntu and Ubuntu-based distributions that are not based on 23.10 or higher **may have issues**.

{: .warning } 
Debian versions older than Debian 12 (Bookworm) are **not supported**. Debian 12 (Bookworm) requires a custom kernel, the [audio script](https://chrultrabook.github.io/docs/docs/installing-linux.html#fixing-audio) will automatically install it for you.

**Recommended distros as of October 2023 (in no particular order) are:**

* Arch Linux and EndeavourOS
* Fedora
* openSUSE Tumbleweed
* Debian 12 (Bookworm)

---

## Installation

1. Create a bootable Linux USB. See [here](bootableusb.html) for a guide.
2. Plug the USB Drive into the Chromebook.
3. Turn on the Chromebook, press `ESC` at the POST screen (when the coreboot logo appears), and select your USB to boot from. 
4. Install as you would on any other computer.

---

## Fixing Audio

You will likely have audio issues after installing Linux. Run the following script to fix them. 

{: .warning }
Using AVS on a device with max98357a will blow your speakers. You have been warned. 

**Prerequisites**
- Python 3.10 or newer
- Git

**How to run the script**
1. Open a terminal.
2. `git clone https://github.com/WeirdTreeThing/chromebook-linux-audio`
3. `cd chromebook-linux-audio`
4. `./setup-audio`

For more information please see [WeirdTreeThing's repo](https://github.com/WeirdTreeThing/chromebook-linux-audio)

{: .fs-5 }


<table>
<tr>
<td class="navtable-l">
<a href="altos.html">← Installing altOS</a> 
</td>
<td class="navtable-r">
<a href="post-install.html">Post Install →</a> 
</td>
</tr>
</table>
